oh hey guys just casually gaming with
the purchase of a qualifying Intel
processor SSD or nook you could
instantly win and Intel gaming Jersey
and be entered in the draw for the
ultimate system click now to learn more
the first and most important thing about
this MOS is the optical sensor featuring
Logitech's Delta zero and fusion engine
I'll get into exactly what the fusion
engine does in a moment but first I want
to test their Delta 0 feature which
basically means no cursor acceleration
as I have some pretty seriously deeply
rooted trust issues when it comes to
most manufacturers and their claims
about acceleration a quick and dirty
explanation of most acceleration is this
if you disable it moving your mouse from
point A to B along a surface without
acceleration should result in the cursor
on your screen moving exactly relative
to the movement of your mouse
independent of the speed of which the
mouse is moving if you were to start at
a move halfway to be extremely quickly
shake the mouse around for a little
while and then go extremely slowly to B
it would still land on B if you enable
acceleration moving extremely quickly
the same distance on the mouse pad will
cause your cursor to overshoot B's
position on the screen and then
repeating the same movement but very
slowly will cause the cursor to fall
short of B's position this is fine for
average users who want to move their
mouse very slowly when trying to click
on something more precisely but it's not
as I Belong precision of their muscle
movements to translate directly to the
screen without any janky randomness it
seems like this is a non-issue
since aside from gaming mouse drivers
windows allows pointer acceleration to
be disabled and stuff that many modern
gaming mouse sensors have inherent
acceleration that cannot be turned off
so to come anxiety we tested g4 o2
sensors by grabbing our camera slider
and just doing a few modifications I
replaced the traditional soft stopper
method with dual heavy-duty clamps to
reduce travel when the slider bumped
into them I then put the slider on the
table and lowered it pretty much as far
as it could go
using a velcro strip to secure the mouse
to the bottom of the slider then for
measurement I put a grid overlay on my
monitor
after all this setup I tested it with a
variety of movements and I'm happy to
say that as far as I can tell the G 402
features what is known as a perfect
sensor with no inherent acceleration
kudos logitech next up is the fusion
engine i was talking about earlier
logitech is using a gyro and an
accelerometer to augment their already
awesome optical sensor if you're running
at a low dpi setting and need to whip
your mouse insanely fast in order to
pull that super-sick 360 no-scope at the
end of your mega dope montage video it
is technically possible for you to
outpace an optical sensor if you do
manage to outpace the optical sensor it
can potentially cause the cursor to
judder or even drastically jump around
which is bad with the fusion engine and
the gyrometer and accelerometer we'll
try to fill the holes in the data stream
to avoid this to test this out linus and
i had a contest of sorts where we
battled to see who could whip the most
the fastest in terms of IPS or inches
per second - one - his extensive master
badminton skills which he has honed over
many years of extremely vigorous
training so it works as advertised kudos
again but even though it worked
I left Logitech sensor modeling 2 on for
a night of gaming and just tried to
ignore it and play normally to see what
would happen it seems that I never
actually exceeded 84 IPS which means
this feature is unlikely to ever
actually kick in for me but I'm not a
professional gamer if you're a low
sensitivity gamer and you do end up
purchasing the g4 o2 and you find that
you get into the speeds where the fusion
engine really benefits you please
message me on Twitter or some other
medium as I'd love to hear more about
your experience which brings us to the
software setting the 240 to 4000 dpi
sensors multiple sensitivity levels was
easy enough and it allowed for a fairly
specific setting as it was able to
increase in increments of 80 you can
also set your polling rate to 125 250
500 or even 1000 reports per second
after getting all that technical stuff
out of the way you can have fun with the
right side of your brain by playing with
the customizable lighting they're able
to set brightness level change the speed
or disable breathing mode entirely and
change the deep if dpi lighting is
always on or just illuminated when you
are changing things and last but not
least is turning off the lighting
effects when you haven't used your mouse
for a specific amount of time Andy for
those of us who have our computers in
our rooms so that was fun but now it's
time for real-world use of
in terms of shape feel and ergonomics of
the unit when compared to the g502 is
futuristic alien-looking aesthetic the G
402 is definitely more conservative but
still does have some Flair it's rocking
eight buttons including forward back dpi
up dpi down dpi shift left click right
click at middle click and they can be
programmed to execute various functions
keystrokes or even multi key macros
using Logitech software so basically
even if you're one of those guys who's
religiously against dpi shift buttons
you can set that button to anything from
play next song functionality to spamming
kappa kappa kapppa or raise your doggers
in chat unfortunately though scroll up
and scroll down were not included in the
key binding options after all that we're
left with a few takeaways when compared
to the G 500 to the G 402 is definitely
a bit more conservative it's down to 8
buttons from 11 it doesn't have a
free-spinning or tilting scroll wheel it
doesn't have a customizable weighting
system it lacks some of the nicely
textured soft touch rubber gripping the
light isn't quite as bright it doesn't
have a braided cable the swooped out
part for your thumb isn't nearly as
accommodating and the left and right
click don't feel quite as sharp and
responsive as the g502 but they still
have a 20 million click rating which is
nice but hold on now that's actually not
that bad on one hand you have the G 502
with its beautiful sensor and laundry
list of features on the other hand you
have the G 402 with the different but
still beautiful sensor which is armed
and armed with a powerful but possibly
not needed for everyone at least fusion
engine while the G 402 is laundry list
of features is considerably shorter than
the g502 it still feels great in hand I
mean you still have the fundamental
organ on that quality of a Logitech
mouse which to many people myself
included feels great in your hand and
you've got one other thing in your hand
that feels great 220 bucks
the G 402 is $60 compared to the G 502 s
$80 price tag so that's a lot of most
for your money and the review is pretty
much over but I have one more closing
thought thank you Logitech for working
on meaningful performance metrics
instead of just focusing on dpi which
many people are just going to lower
anyways
they've even have their dpi blasted on
the front of the box and it's clear
they're more focused on things like
their Delta zero and fusion engine
technologies
I'm tired of seeing companies dump
high-end flawed mice year after year and
it's nice to see a shift in focus
speaking of a shift in focus today's
video is sponsored by gigabyte horas x7v
to gaming notebook this is the thin and
light SLI gaming notebook that we
compared against a not so thin and light
notebook in the video and the annotation
here with two geforce 860 MS in sli and
Intel i7 48 60 HQ processor a 17.3 inch
1080p display a one terabyte hard drive
and a few different options for SSD and
ram capacities all packed into chassis
that's less than 0.8 inches tall is an
absolute beast that you can pack in your
backpack without breaking your back as a
surprisingly good keyboard solid heat
dissipation from its rear exhaust setup
and more than acceptable noise levels
for a thin notebook all which make the
gigabyte or s x7v to an ideal product
for someone looking for a notebook
that's suitable for everyday use as well
as gaming so if you're in the market for
a gaming notebook be sure to check out
pricing and availability for the x7 v2
using the link in the video description
I know what you guys think about their
delta0 and fusion core technologies as
long as what do you guys think about our
testing methodologies for stuff like
acceleration also if you would like to
save money getting the 402 or if you're
more kind of into the baller style
status of the g502 let me know all that
kind of stuff in the comments down below
where you should also be liking
disliking subscribing sharing and
otherwise distributing this video and if
you want to post somewhere else because
you're kind of not into YouTube jump
over to the forum post there and let me
know what you think there if you don't
like the ads on the forum become a
contributor and as always thank you guys
for watching I'll see you next time